A man and his tortoise


General story arc
Man (or boy really) is naive, optimistic and energetic, though maybe a bit scared at start. As he grows older he becomes more resolved and realistic. At old age he's given up on being rescued.
Tortoise is somewhat bitter at first when encountering boy, it reminds him of all those others he's gotten to know and then lost. One just a short while ago as well, a wound that has not yet fully healed. As he becomes accustomed to the boy as he grows up he warms up to him. They become friends and he opens up more about his past with the others that have come with the island. At first with more factual information, what they tought him over the years. Later what they made him feel over the years, how it is to live past everyone you meet. As the man gets middle age the tortoise is more humoristic and positive as well but in the mans old age death looms to close with all the pain that involves for the tortoise, making it harder to keep a positive attitude.

Find T-shirt pretty early? Get rescued new objective? Or find one at the end after a very long time?

--- Young ---

B: boy
T: Tortoise

B Where am I?
B Where's my shirt?

First meet
B: Wow, someone else lives here too
B: Hi tortoise
T: Hello young one
B: I'm lost, I don't know how I ended up here and I'm missing my T-shirt. You haven't happened to have seen one?
T: I have, but it was a long time ago.
B: Oh. Ok. Could you help me look though?
T: Ok. I'll tag along.
B: That's great, thanks! I'm Steve by the way, what's your name?
T: Lets say Rob
B: Ok Rob, lets see what we can find!


Find a pair of pants
T: Is this what you're looking for?
B: No, those are a pair of pants. They look nice but seem to be more worn than the ones I already have.
T: Ok. They just looked kinda similar with those three holes.


B: Hey Rob, are you all alone on this island?
T: Usually I am but not now anymore.
B: Of course but before me?
T: Lets just say that you're not the first I've met nor will you be the last.


Boat steering wheel
B: Hey, what's this?
T: That's a ship's wheel. You use that to turn the rudder of the boat and change direction of where you are going. I've seen quite a few of those. And for some it mattered a great deal what kind of wheel you had on your ship. The feel when holding it, the responsiveness when turned and of course the right diameter; everything mattered apparently.
B: Do you mean it doesn't matter anymore?
T: Yes, I guess back then created things were different, they were made with great care and detail for each boat and built to last.


B: How do you know so much about all this stuff? I mean, you're a tortoise.
T: In all my years here on this island I've heard many stories, from many different people. You're bound to learn a thing or two.


B: Have you ever seen a boat come by here?
T: I can remember two boats slowly passing by at a distance. From my description Malcolm later explained that they must have been fishing boats. It must not have been a very good catch around here I guess.
B: You didn't try to make them see you?
T: How would I do that? I'm just a tortoise. And it's a good thing I wasn't able to, I'd prefer not to become tortoise soup. It's a thing, believe me. Or so I have been told.
B: Who's Malcolm by the way?
T: Just someone I used to know.


T-shirt
B: Wait... this looks like... my t-shirt! It's actually my t-shirt. See, check the tag in the back here.
T: That was unexpected. So few things wash ashore so what are the odds it would be your shirt. How lucky!

--- Grown up ---

M: man

M: Rob, you never told me how you got here.
T: You never asked.
M: But I'm asking now.
T: Well, it simple as I was born here. This has always been my home. I only ever knew my mother and she passed away a long time ago, how she ended up here is a mystery and will remain so forever.

M: Why haven't you ever tried to swim away?
T: Because tortoises can't swim. Well, I figured out on my own that I couldn't but I was told later that all tortoises can't swim.

Radio
M: Hey, a radio!
T: Oh, I haven't seen those in a while. Unlikely that'll work though, it's been in the water and sand for far too long.
M: Maybe but I'm going to give it a try anyway.
*click*
M: Shoot. That could have been helpful.
T: Anything electrical gets ruined by the ocean the instant it falls in. Though I do remember Leigh found a small flashlight that somehow had survived the harsh water. It was very useful while it lasted though my favorite was when she would use it to light up her face in entertaining ways.
M: Who's Leigh?
T: I guess I could tell you. Leigh was another castaway I met a bunch of years ago. She was about your age when I met her, a bit shy at first but once we got to know eachother she became one of the best friends I've ever had. But that was then.

M: Some days I really wonder if I will ever get off this island. Or if I'll ever meet another person.
M: Before you met me, what was it like?
T: It was very lonely, walking around this island. But you push on, you continue living day by day, night by night.

Tire
T: Steve, look over there. You could wear that, it's a tire.
M: Hah, good one. Curious that thing got out here.
T: Who knows, maybe someone used it as a hoop and ran it into the ocean. Though looks more modern than I've ever seen. What's it made of?
M: Seems like some kind of rubber. I like the grooves in it.

M: Of all the people and animals you've met, who was the worst?
T: Oh... give me a second. Jaime would definitely top that list, he couldn't deal with my tempo. He would just get angry and run to the other side of the island. I didn't mind too much, he wasn't someone you really wanted to be around. He didn't stay for long either.

Giraffe
M: Is that a statue? Of what, I've never seen that kind of thing.
T: You'e never seen a giraffe? They're magnificent creatures with incredibly tall necks. I actually knew a giraffe once here, can't remember his name as I didn't know him for very long. But he was able to get high up in the trees and easily get down the fruit. Though he wasn't always the nicest.
M: Huh, that's interesting. Kinda hard to picture though. How come he wasn't the nicest.
T: He had a bit of an ego. Maybe all that time at the zoo, being their big pride and joy really got to his head.

--- Old ---

M: There really isn't anyway of this island is there?
T: Most likely not, no.
M: Atleast we're both stuck here, together.
T: Yes we are. For a while.

M: Hey Rob. What do you think happens when you die?
T: That is one of life's toughest questions. I've heard so many different theories that it'd make your head spin. But in the end nobody knows.
M: But what do you believe?
T: What does it matter? People come, they stay for a while and then they all, inevitably leave.

M: How do you handle people dying, or leaving you as you say? What is it like being alone after that.
T: Do you really want to know? It's a great sadness that tears you apart from the inside followed by long depression that feels like it's never going to end. I've been scarred but not in a way that you can see.
You really start question what the meaning of life and even after all this time so far I've come up with nothing.

T: Hey, Steve; I'm really going to miss you when you leave me, you know that?
CHANGE THIS LINE, the tortoise just mentioned how he would be depressed
M: Really? I'd figured you'd move on pretty quickly. Not wallow in the old that will and kinda is me.
T: No, you've been good to me, better than most. Even though it's painful to remember, some memories are worth keeping around.
M: Thanks buddy, I'll miss you too if that is possible in whatever happens after this life.

M: I feel like this might be it, this might be where I leave you.
T: I'm going to miss you old friend.